
Its a problem solved using channels.

Barber goes to a saloon with a waiting room with fixed number of seats.

If waiting room is empty, barber goes to sleep.

If a client comes to shop and no place to sit.Then he/she leaves.

If seat available and barber is sleeping, then he wakes up and cut the hair

If barber busy, he waits for his turn.

Once the shop closes, no one is allowed but the barber has to cut the hair of everyone who was in the waiting room.

Now look at this code : 

```
func shout() {

for {

fmt.Println("executing loop!")

}

}

  
  

func main() {

go shout()

  

time.Sleep(10 * time.Second)

}
```

What's happening in this code.

EntryPoint -> Main function.
After that, we call a goroutine, shout.

Now, can you see shout is a indefinite loop.
So, what does it mean?.

And also we've called it as a goroutine.


Answer : 

We enter the main goroutine main func, after that we call another func shout.

This shout func will also run in another goroutine, and it will be indefinite. 

How will we be able to close the shout function before the main exits. 

Now, 
**Termination of Goroutines**: In Go, when the `main` function exits, the entire program terminates, and all goroutines are stopped, including the `shout` goroutine. This means that even though `shout` is designed to run indefinitely, it will stop when the `main` function completes and the program exits.

But, can you see. 
We ran a completely different function from our main routine.

Its as if its running independently of our main func and also other go-routines.


So, this is the golden thing here.

We'll use this quality of go-routines.

And also, communication is important to make this program useful. 
Communication is channel.



The goroutine function

```
func shout(ping <-chan string, pong chan<- string) {

for {

s := <-ping

  

pong <- fmt.Sprintf("%s!!!", strings.ToUpper(s))

}

}
```

Notice we've used some designation to make them only receiving channel and responding channel.

This is important in case we don't want to mess up the type of channels.

Now comes the main function.

```
func main() {
//Create two channels
ping := make(chan string)
pong := make(chan string)

go shout(ping, pong)

for {
fmt.Print("-> ")
var userInput string

_, _ = fmt.Scanln(&userInput) 
if userInput == strings.ToLower("Q") {
break
}

ping <- userInput
response := <-pong

fmt.Println("Response : ", response)

}

fmt.Println("Closing channels")

close(ping)
close(pong)
}
```

1. So, at the beginning we're creating two channels.
2. And then in the background we're running the shout function as a goroutine, but it will run infinitely.
3. Inside is the for loop, where we'll exit once we type "q" or "Q".
4. Outside we can close the channels.


A GOLDEN RULE, WE NEED TO CLEAR THE CHANNEL FROM THE PLACE OF ORIGIN.
AND HENCE SOME FALLBACK NEEDS TO BE PUT, 
IN CASE.

But just know that we need to clear.

```
-> w
Response :  W!!!
-> w
Response :  W!!!
-> q
Closing channels
(base) baarish@Ahambarishs-Laptop sleeping-barbara-problem % 
```

Now, how to use [[8.1.1 select statement]]


Using Channels: 

